So
when you're told that over and over and over and
over again, how much people disapprove of what
you're doing, after a while, you really don't care
to do that anymore.
So for a lot of guys, it was a mental trip. They
didn't
want to be there anymore. Okay. Tell me about what
it was like when you came home. How did people react
when you told them you fought in Vietnam?
I was real, you know, I always got such a sense of
pride when my dad said, I fought in World War II, you
know, and I fought in Korea. I, well, I just, you
know, I just, you know, swell up inside with pride
for what he had done. And even today you tell
people, well, you know, I fought in Vietnam and
it's, it's like, big deal. Who cares? Oh, you were
over there in all that mess? Well, to me it wasn't a
mess.
A fear that I have is,
I have a real fear of communism. I have never lived
in a communistic society But I've seen the results
of communism. I've been to North Vietnam, and I
would not want my kids to grow up like that. Always
fear and fear.
I think we lost the war because of an attitude. If we
wanted to have
If we wanted to have won, we would have,
regardless of the cost.
I would have
almost did and would have died in Vietnam if I knew
that it would have helped to stamp out something
that I don't believe in. I guess the American
public has lost its beliefs. Tell me some more
about when you came home, reactions of people. You
were telling me about Veterans Day here at A&M.
Well,
my dad, he said that he used to... that everybody
used to wear their uniform on Veterans Day and on
Memorial Day. And it used to be a real time
to remember what people fought for. And I wore my
uniform last
Memorial Day. And I
didn't see anybody else. There was no sense of
anybody else being proud of. I know a lot of Vietnam
vets. There's no sense of pride in what they've
done. That time I went to Washington, DC, there was
a guy sitting in a wheelchair. He'd lost both of his
legs in Vietnam. And this little girl, I bet you she
wasn't over 16 years old, she walked over with a
pole. She had a long pole with a rope hanging down.
And there was a baby, a doll, hanging on the end of
that pole. And they had taken a match or whatever
and scorched that doll all up. And she threw that
thing in his lap.
and said, remember this?
She has absolutely no idea. The guy goes over there
and loses both of his legs so that she can go out in
the streets and demonstrate.
And there was no appreciation at all. And that is
the most aggravating thing. When I, the deal about
Texas A&M, I walked into a
literature class and a
guy, I never killed a baby when I was in Vietnam. How
this thing about baby killers came about, I don't
know. Kids were killed in World War II. Do we go
around calling the World War II vets baby killers?
And there were orphanages bombed and things like
that in World War II. Accidents happen, but that's
the cost of war. And when you got a guy, a freshman in
college, walking up to me and calling me a baby
killer, it makes me want to go into a, I would just
like to bash his face in, because he doesn't know
what he's talking about. I never killed a baby. in
Vietnam. I killed a whole bunch of people that were
trying to kill me. But I never killed a baby.
So they've locked us into a group and said, all of
you guys are like this. It's frustrating. You get
this sense of you want to scream and tell people
Based on what you experienced, what do you think of
our involvement in Southeast Asia?
Do you think it was right or wrong? What are your
feelings on it? Well, I think any time a government
reaches out, we have always been there for people
that have asked for our help. If we stop,
If we had stopped in Vietnam, if we had told the
Vietnamese people, oh, I'm really sorry, we just
can't get involved, you're just going to have to
sell this yourself, then we have lost every idea
that this country was based on. I'm a patriot, I
guess, from the soles of my feet up. If we start and
say, oh, no, just like what we had done just now, we
have decided, our government has decided, or we
have some people in the House that have decided
that
we're not going to continue democracy
in the world. They just showed us that by not giving
aid
in Central America, militarily or financially,
whatever. When we stop
spreading democracy, communism comes in. We gave
up and we quit because of pressures of a few people
in Vietnam. And what happened? Now the whole
country is communist. If we give up, and allow
communism to spread. It's just like a cancer. It's
going to spread pretty soon. We're
not going to be able to hold it back of our own back
doors. And it's going to come in. If we let it spread
in Central America, it's going to spread just like
it has done in Asia, just like it's done in Vietnam.
We stopped it in Korea.
It's a stalemate in Korea.
And if we let it, I think our involvement was
justified, to answer your question.
Because we didn't finish our job,
I think that hurts. But it's like all those guys
that died, those 55,000 guys, and some of them were
good friends of mine,
died for nothing because we did not finish what we
set out to do.
How have your views changed since the end of the
war, or have they? They're the same. I'm still a
patriot. I still believe in democracy.
If my government said tomorrow, Bob, we need you to
go to Central America to fight against communist
aggression,
my bags would be packed and I'd be ready to go.
Did you ever question why you were in Vietnam? One
time. When was that? after I had been shot.
But I think anybody would question. But once they
patched me up and I was okay, I think if you're at the
steps of death, you're always going to question no
matter where you are. If you're speeding down the
road and you hit a telephone pole and you're laying
there and you're dying, you're going to question,
well, why was I speeding?
I question, what am I doing here? But as soon as I got
okay, I knew why I was there. And I was helping
people that asked for help, because they don't
want to live under
communist rule. That's why I was there. And I
questioned the one time, but after that I didn't
ever again. And I still don't to this day. I still
believe.
I put it off. I put off the takeover. as long and as
well as I could. I
did what I could do, and I'm satisfied with that.
Okay, well, thank you for your time. Okay. In
general, can you tell me about how the American
soldiers felt about the Vietnamese all through
the war and up until the time of the pullout?
Not only was there a job to do, but there was also a
caring. It's just like anywhere. You see somebody
in trouble, and people care about people.
So many times, you see GIs just taking kids out of a
fire area, risking their lives to help the
Vietnamese people. Even in the pullout, the Army
could have just left, but they tried to get as many
people as they could out of South Vietnam. I mean,
just as many people as they could get out, they got
out. The dumping of helicopters over the side,
personal effects were thrown overboard.
just so they could cram one more person on board
ship to bring them to freedom and democracy. So
there was a real caring, a sense of caring between
the military and the Vietnamese people. I think
that's, if the people that were demonstrating in
the days of the Vietnamese War, if they could have
seen, if they would have taken the time to look
through on their political minds,
they could have seen that the GI and the South
Vietnamese people had relationships. They had a
caring, they cared about each other. And if they
would have looked at that, maybe it would have
softened a lot of hearts the attitudes would have
changed. Why do you think Saigon fell? Well,
because we pulled out. Why
has Lebanon fallen? Because Israel was pulling
out. Eventually, the Muslims are going to be in
complete control of what's going on there Same
thing in Vietnam. We pulled out what was left
to defend. And a lot of people, a lot of people have
died since we pulled out just because they were
friends to us.
And why did we pull out? Because of pressure on...
That's what I said earlier, because of pressure of
the...
In my opinion, the private sector needs to keep
their nose out of the military business. Of course
we've got our guys going over there to fight, but
that's what they're in the military for. People
know what they're doing when they join the
military. It's not just to get a paycheck. It's to
defend them. You might end up dying. That's the
whole idea of having a military. The private
sector, our Congress, even all the way up to the
president,
need to leave the military to military business.
If the military was able to stay in Vietnam, who
knows what would it be like today? Or if we had had
enough
What I want to say
is if we had had enough dedication in what we were
doing as the communists had in what they were
doing, we would have won that war.
The communists, they had that idea set into their
minds. And no matter what was going to happen, they
were going to fight for what they believed in. We
stopped believing in what we were fighting for.
A lot of Vietnam vets are protesting now about why
they were there and asking for aid because a lot of
them are having mental problems now and many have
cancer and stuff and are saying that's caused from
Agent Orange that was used to defoliate the
jungles. How do you feel about all that? Does that
show some sort of a... I think these guys need to...
The Vietnam
vet that was wounded in serving his country, I
believe, has a legitimate claim.
But a lot of the guys
Like the dope thing in Vietnam. The dope problem in
Vietnam was a choice that you could make. If you
made that choice to get all strung out on dope, then
that was your business. That's a choice that you
made. Now, our government should not have to pay
for that. Now, the Agent Orange thing, I'm not a
chemist, so I don't know what effects Agent Orange
had on on our guys.
That one,
I think a lot of guys are probably looking for a free
ride. I was probably eligible for a disability.
I would not accept it. What for? Just to, you know,
I'm able to get out there and make a living. I was in
North Vietnam for 18 months. A lot of these guys sat
back in a foxhole, stuck their gun up out of the
foxhole without even ever looking out of it and
just pulled the trigger. And now they want federal
aid from the federal government? Well, that's a
bunch of baloney. They need to start standing up
like a man again and go to work and make a living
instead of trying to take a free ride from our
government. That's not fair.
that you are proud of what you did and the time that
you spent and are proud of the job that you did?
Yeah. Yeah, I am. When I say I'm a Vietnam vet, I
don't hang my head down when I say it. And that's,
you know, a lot of guys do now because of the way
they've been treated. I
thought I fought for what I thought was right, and
nobody can take that away from me. If somebody
wants to make an outlandish statement, the way I
look at it is they don't know what they're talking
about. If you were to have a message to the college
students of today to try to justify or clear up the
misconceptions you feel like they have, what
would that message be?
Don't judge everything by what you hear. I think
they would really have had to have been there to
make a judgment. Anything else?
What would you tell them as far as if they were
needed to defend the country, what would your?
your message to them be as far as whether they
should or shouldn't?
Well, my attitude is probably a little different,
but I would say if your country, you know, this
country gives you everything that you've got, you
know, and if we don't, if each individual doesn't
really weigh it and say, I'm not willing to give up,
the way of life that I have, my liberty and my
democratic society, my pursuit of happiness or
whatever. If they're not willing to make a stand
and fight for their freedoms,
like the guys that went to Canada during the
Vietnam War, I do not think that they should have
ever been given a right to come back here. You know,
because they want to turn tail. And of course, they
don't mind receiving all the things that this
country has to offer. But when the country turns
around and says, well, you know, we need your help
now, if you want to turn tail and run, as far as I'm
concerned, you might as well just keep on running
and go on. You know, it's like the people that want a
socialistic government. If you want a
socialistic government, go live in Russia. You
know, there's plenty of them around. Take your
pick. But don't try to push that off on, you know, on
my way of life. I don't want to live in a social
government.
I like doing what I do. If I make it in life, well then
that's, I can say, hip hip hooray. If I don't, well
then that's my problem too. If I'm able to make a
million dollars a year, well, I don't want to have
to take half of it and give it to somebody else, just
because they don't have the willingness to go out
there and do it.
I kind of have a thing against college students,
just like we were sent into a group. a lot of that has
gone now because I understand now that everything
has changed.
The college student attitude is not the same as it
was when we were in the war in Vietnam.
We have to fight for what we believe in. And if we
lose the belief in
in the liberties that we have, we might as well give
up. Okay, well thank you again. Okay.
After the interview we were talking just a second
ago and you were telling me about the marijuana use
and I told you about the statistics I heard about VD
and marijuana use. I wanted you to tell me, repeat
what you'd said about
how the North Vietnamese protected them or helped
their cause with the knowing what the American men
were going to do over there. Well, the American
males, the sex drive is pretty strong. So
the
communists used to infiltrate the South
Vietnamese camps. It was real hard to know who was a
communist and who wasn't. But they would send
women in.
that were posing as hookers. And
if I can get blunt with you. And they would insert
razor blades into the private areas. And when the
GI would penetrate, you've got to understand that
their idea a lot of times was not to kill the guy.
Their whole idea was if we could do enough damage to
where men, GIs couldn't go home and have any kids or
demoralize them, that added a lot to their cause.
So when a GI would go to bed with these Viet Cong, not
knowing that they were Viet Cong, the razor blades
would just cut them up real bad and do a lot of
damage. So that was one way. Or some other times the
women would go in with grenades. And G.I. would be
laying there with them and they'd just pull the
pins on the grenades and blow them both up. Just
sacrificial. Did that happen a lot?
After a few times, they really started beefing up
security and checking a lot of the civilians that
were coming through. Just stop them at random and
check them.
The dope scene, it wasn't just marijuana. It was
just about anything you could get. Opium was real
big. So easy to get. Yeah.
Did you see a lot of use? No, we were not in a position
to be really with a lot of our own military. With our
own four guys, if we had ever caught anybody in our
group even smoking a marijuana cigarette, we'd
have shot them on the spot. I would have anyway
because my life is not worth a marijuana
cigarette, some guy getting high. But most of our
guys were, or I never saw anybody in our group Was
there any lacing of marijuana by the North
Vietnamese to try to get to the Americans? They
tried to tamper with it? It's hard to say because
you never knew where the supply was coming from.
Did it happen, though? I'm sure it did. Also, we
were talking about
your reconditioning when you came home. I thought
that was interesting. Tell me a little bit more
about that. Well, you have to understand that when
you're in an area and your job is to basically kill,
kill, kill, then
the military acted real responsible, as far as I
was concerned, to get you back into a... the mode of
civilian life. When we came home, they spent four
months setting us up in an apartment.
Instead of waking up in the morning and reaching
for your gun or weapon, whatever you used, they
would wake you up and immediately take you and get
the newspaper and take you into the kitchen and
you'd make coffee and
go to the bathroom and brush your teeth and you know
whatever they could do to get you back used to
living a civilian life instead of a military life
and I really shouldn't say military life combat
Combat line, yeah, to get you out of that train of
thought. So
they did a good job. Do you ever have any flashbacks
or ever feel like you're seeing Vietnam while
you're here? Yeah, if I see a movie, a lot of times
I'll, you know, it'll immediately take me back.
On my way over here, I heard a lot of times it's sound
or it's smell or it's something looks familiar.
Mainly, I guess, sound does it.
On my way over here this afternoon, I was walking
across the parking lot, and I heard a helicopter.
And out where I live, it's just a lot of brush and
trees and jungle and vines and everything. And
when I heard this helicopter, I immediately just
took a quick flash and went back to Vietnam. But I
think that's just part of what you can go through.
Just remembering. It has no negative effects on
you
though? No. It's just like the first time you rode a
bicycle. Sometimes something will happen or if
you ever fell down and scraped your hand or knee or
whatever, something flashes and it brings you
back to the memory of that. I spend a lot of time
there and not always in real good company, so it has
a tendency to bring it back.
All right, well, thanks again. Okay.